So we now have the foundation for creating task. We have this dummy task here but now we're ready to
create actual tasks.
But before that I want to point out an important thing before going any further.
So sometimes you might need to run our task differently depending on whether we are in a production
environment or a development environment.
So for example let's say we are having a task that will compile SASS to CSS and minify the CSS.
So that will be great for production, for the end user to have the CSS minified.
But during development it's unnecessary to have the minified CSS.
That process might actually take time and processing power and we don't need to have it during development.
So we need to have a way to, you know, like a flag to tell whether we want to run a task for development or
for production. And to do that we'll use a package called yargs.
And it's an NPM package.
It allows us to add some arguments in the command line when we run a task.
And then you can use these arguments in the gulpfile.
So let's see exactly what that means.
So let's install it. I'm gonna change to my theme folder. Make sure you always do that.
And then we want to --save-dev, I'll tell you later what's --save only. What the difference between --save and --save-dev but
we want to --save-dev for this one. And i is also an alias for install.
So it's now installed.
So let's see how to use it.
So let's go to the gulpfile now and let's remove the old code here. And let's "import yargs
from 'yargs'". And then I'm gonna create a new constant.
And the "const" is a keyword, is a new keyword in JavaScript.
And let's call it PRODUCTION.
And let's assign it to yargs
.argv.prod.
And in our
hello task here
we will "consol.log(PRODUCTION)" instead of the random text.
Let's now run "gulp
hello".
And we've "undefined" here. Now let's run "gulp hello"
and then --prod equals some text. And then we have some text here.
So that's great.
So now we can set a variable in the command line and use it in the gulpfile.
So what we can do is that when we run a task we can pass the the --prod flag.
And that will be true or just not pass it and it will be undefined which is false.
So that's how we will determine whether we are running the task for production or for development.
So I think now we are ready to create our actual tasks.
But before that let's create a new folder here.
And let's call it source or src.
And then let's create a folder called assets. That's a file, sorry.
And inside assets we will create images
and js
and sass or scss. So in the src folder we'll have the SASS files and the JavaScript files written
in the
new syntax. And images and then we will create tasks that will take the SASS files and the JavaScript
files and the images and you know compile them, minify them, whatever you want. And then put them inside
another folder.
And we'll see how to do that in the next lecture.